
# Real Analysis


Borel Subsets in X are measurable

B = Borel sets = sigma algebra generated by all  open  subsets

a = sigma algebra induced by  outer measure

B belongs  to a

metric outer measure => Borel  subset  of R^n are Lebesgue measurable


<<实变函数理论和方法>>


[THE CANTOR SET-ABRIEF INTRODUCTION](https://wwwmpa.mpa-garching.mpg.de/~dnelson/storage/dnelson.cantor-set.pdf)

[An Exploration of the Cantor Set](https://missouriwestern.edu/orgs/momaa/ChrisShaver-CantorSetPaper4.pdf)

A set S is said to be perfect if S = S', where S' is the set of all the limit points of S. Inother words, S is perfect if S is a closed set in which every point is a limit point of S.

A set S is said to be nowhere dense if the interior of the closure of S is empty.

a set is perfect if the set is closed and all the points of the set are limit points of the set.

Properties of the Cantor ternary set C3
* C3 has uncountably many elements.
* C3 contains no intervals.
* C3 is compact.
* C3 is perfect.
* C3 is nowhere dense.

So far we have that the Cantor set is a subset of the interval [0, 1] that has uncountably many elementsyet contains no intervals.  It has the cardinality of the real numbers, yet it has zero length.





# Statistics

[Type I and type II errors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_I_and_type_II_errors)

* A type I error occurs when the null hypothesis (H0) is true, but is rejected. It is asserting something that is absent, a false hit. A type I error may be likened to a so-called false positive (a result that indicates that a given condition is present when it actually is not present).The type I error rate or significance level is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis given that it is true. It is denoted by the Greek letter α (alpha) and is also called the alpha level. Often, the significance level is set to 0.05 (5%), implying that it is acceptable to have a 5% probability of incorrectly rejecting the null hypothesis
* A type II error occurs when the null hypothesis is false, but erroneously fails to be rejected. It is failing to assert what is present, a miss. A type II error may be compared with a so-called false negative (where an actual 'hit' was disregarded by the test and seen as a 'miss') in a test checking for a single condition with a definitive result of true or false. A Type II error is committed when we fail to believe a true alternative hypothesis.The rate of the type II error is denoted by the Greek letter β (beta) and related to the power of a test (which equals 1−β). 


Type I error (False Positive) (Probability = α) 

Type II error(False Negative) (Probability = β)


[Causality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causality)

Causality (also referred to as causation, or cause and effect) is what connects one process, the cause, with another process or state, the effect, where the cause is wholly or partially responsible for the effect; the former is hence said to be a cause of the latter. In general, a process has many causes, which are also said to be causal factors for it, and all lie in its past. An effect can in turn be a cause of, or causal factor for, many other effects, which all lie in its future.



[What Educated Citizens Should Know About Statistics and Probability](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~jutts/AmerStat2003.pdf)


1. Cause and Effect: When it can be concluded that a relationship is one of cause and effect, and when it cannot, including the difference between randomized experiments and observational studies.
2. Statistical Significance and Practival Importance: The difference between statistical signicance and practical importance, especially when using large sample sizes
3. Low Power versus No Effect: The difference between finding "no effect" or "no difference" and finding no statistically significant effect or difference, expecially when using small sample size.
4. Biases In Surveys: Common sources of bias in surveys and experiments, such as poor wording of questions, volunteer response, and socially desirable answers.
5.Probable conincidences: The idea that coincidences and seemingly very improbable events are not uncommon because there are so many possibilities.
6. Confusion of the Inverse: "Confusion of the inverse" in which a conditional probability in one direction is confused with the conditional probability in the other direction.
7. Averge versus Normal: Understading that variability is natural, and that "normal" is not the same as "average".




<<统计学方法与数据分析引论>>(R. Lyman Ott and Michael Longnecker， An Introduction to Statistical Methods and Data Analysis Seventh Edition,Texas A&M University, 2016)
  
  总体：所有测量值的集合   
  样本：从总体中挑选出来的测量值集合 
  
  
  clinical trial（临床实验）
  
  
  统计学的目标在于基于从感兴趣的总体抽得的样本的测量信息，对该总体作出推断。
  
  数据收集方案的设计，数据的概括和统计分析，解释研究结果
  
  That is, statistics is the science of Learning from Data.
  
  Learning from Data: (1) defining the problem, (2) collecting the data, (3) summarizing
the data, and (4) analyzing the data, interpreting the analyses, and communicating
the results.


someone has defined the problem to be examined (Step 1), developed a plan for collecting
data to address the problem (Step 2), and summarized the data and prepared the
data for analysis (Step 3). Then following the analysis of the data, the results of the
analysis must be interpreted and communicated either verbally or in written form
to the intended audience (Step 4).

A population is the set of all measurements of interest to the sample collector.

A sample is any subset of measurements selected from the population.


The patterns and trends discovered in the analysis of the data are defined as data mining models.

Data collection processes include surveys, experiments, and the examination of existing data from business records, censuses,
government records, and previous studies. The theory of sample surveys and the theory of experimental designs
provide excellent methodology for data collection.


We will also make a distinction between an experimentalstudy and an observational study.

In an observational study, the researcher records information concerning the subjects under study without any interference with the process that is generating the information. The researcher is a passive observer of the transpiring events. In an experimental study, the researcher actively manipulates certain variables associated with the study, called the explanatory variables, and then records their effects on the response variables associated with the experimental subjects. A severe limitation of observational studies is that the recorded values of the response variables may be affected by variables other than the explanatory variables. These variables are not under the control of the researcher. They are called confounding variables. The effects of the confounding variables and the explanatory variables on the response variable cannot be separated due to the lack of control the researcher has over the physical setting in which the observations are made.


Observational studies may be dichotomized into either a comparative study or a descriptive study. In a comparative study, two or more methods of achieving a result are compared for effectiveness. In a descriptive study, the major purpose is to characterize
a population or process based on certain attributes in that population or process.

A problem that may occur in observational studies is assigning cause-and-effect relationships to spurious associations between factors.

Observational studies are of three basic types:
* A sample survey is a study that provides information about a population at a particular point in time (current information).
* A prospective study is a study that observes a population in the present using a sample survey and proceeds to follow the subjects in the sample forward in time in order to record the occurrence of specific outcomes.
* A retrospective study is a study that observes a population in the present using a sample survey and also collects information about the subjects in the sample regarding the occurrence of specific outcomes that have already taken place.


Both prospective and retrospective studies are often comparative in nature. Two specific types of such studies are cohort studies and case-control studies.








# Bayesian Statistics

Bradley P. Carlin and Thomas A. Louis,  Bayesian Methods for Data Analysis third edition, Taylor & Francis Group 2009  

Three principal approaches to inference guide modern data analysis: frequentist, Bayesian, and likelihood.  


empirical Bayes (EB)  

In a nutshell, the Likelihood Principle states that once the data value x has been observed, the likelihood function L(θ|x) contains all relevant experimental information delivered by x about the unknown parameter θ.  

Many of these advantages are presented in detail in the popular textbook by Berger
* Bayesian methods provide the user with the ability to formally incorporate prior information.
* Inferences are conditional on the actual data.
* The reason for stopping the experimentation does not affect Bayesian inference.
* Bayesian answers are more easily interpretable by nonspecialists.
* All Bayesian analyses follow directly from the posterior; no separate theories of estimation, testing, multiple comparisons, etc. are needed.
* Any question can be directly answered through Bayesian analysis.
* Bayes and EB procedures possess numerous optimality properties.


The most basic Bayesian model has two stages, with a likelihood specification Y |θ ∼ f(y|θ) and a prior specification θ ∼ π(θ), where either Y or θ can be vectors.

K. Krishnamoorthy， Handbook of Statistical Distributions with Applications Second Edition，CRC Press， 2016  


Peter D. Hoff，A First Course in Bayesian Statistical Methods，Springer， 2009  


Bradley Efron and Trevor Hastie, Computer Age Statistical Inference: Algorithms, Evidence, and Data Science, Cambridge University Press, 2016


[Bayesian Inference](http://www.stat.cmu.edu/~larry/=sml/Bayes.pdf)


